Let's look at one way of solving the exercise.
The first thing I'm going to do is make sure that Kafka and Spark are running.
I don't think they are, because I just came into the workspace for the first time today.
So sure enough if I do PS - EF, they're not running.
So I'm going to click this start Kafka button and get that going.
Can I make this a little easier to work with here?
While that's running, let's go start up Spark.
So now I'm going to go to the home workspace,
Spark folder, and then I'm going go to the sbin folder.
I'm now in home/workspace/spark/sbin.
I am going to say,./ start-master.sh.
Copy the log directory and file name,
then I'm going to tail that with tail-f and the filename.
I'm waiting for the path to the spark-master.
Still waiting, haven't seen it yet.
Sometimes Spark Masters are a little slower to start.
There it is, copying that.
I can kill the tail without killing
the process tail is just watching the log file so that doesn't hurt anything.
So "Control C" gets me out of that.
Now I'm going to do do./start-slave.sh with the Master UI. It's running.
Let's go back over here to Kafka and we have a blinking cursor,
and this is a normal error.
So we've got everything running.
Now we're ready to write code.
I've got a bunch of imports here.
It's important to remember that when you write these on your own, those won't be there.
When you're writing a Spark application,
be sure to import the proper libraries that you need.
I've got a payload here that's coming from bank withdrawals topic,
and if I look at the data that I have,
I have an accountNumber,
I have an amount,
I have a dateAndTime,
and I have a transactionId.
I also have an atm withdrawals message coming from another Kafka topic,
and it includes the transaction date,
the transactionId, and the atmLocation.
I need to create a schema for both of
these in order to pass the JSON data that I'm going to get.
So I'm going to start by creating the schema for the BankWithdrawals data.
Call it BankWithdrawalsMessageSchema.
It's going to be a StruckType and I'm going to pass it in an array of StruckFields.
Each field needs to match the JSON field exactly,
and again we're doing this because we're 4Spark3
Spark 3.0 does automatic JSON field inference,
but because we're on 2.4.6,
we're not going to have that available.
So accountNumber is a string,
we know that because it has quotes around the value.
Now we're going do an amount and I noticed that I don't have a float imported.
So I'm going to do a float type,
and make sure I import that before I use it.
It wouldn't cause an error yet,
but when I try to run it, it would.
Now I'm going to create the fields for dateAndTime,
and we're going to make it a string right now. What am I missing?
TransactionId, and it looks like that's an integer.
There's no quotes around the value.
So I could make that an integer type.
I could also make it a string.
Now I'm looking at this other data that has a transactionId as well.
We're going to join on that field,
and it's an integer.
So I think if we make them both integers, we should be okay.
Now I'm going to make this schema for
the other payload called atmWithdrawalsMessageSchema.
I'm going to pass the StruckFields that I need.
The first one is the transactionDate,
and again we're going to treat it as a string.
If I needed to calculate when something
happened and if it was before or after something else,
then a string wouldn't help me very much,
but for this purpose,
it's just for reporting.
So I'm going to look at the transactionId,
which we decided was an integer in both cases.
Then I've got an atmLocation,
which is a Stringk, and that's the last field for the atmWithdrawals message.
It only has three fields.
So now I'm going to create a Spark Session and we're going to call it bank withdrawals,
and make sure to say get or create,
or you will be disappointed.
Now let's set our log level to warn.
It's important to know that it doesn't keep us from seeing console output.
It's changing the log level,
which is different for the console output.
I want to create
the bankWithdrawalsRawStreamingDF,
there we go.
That's going to come from Spark through a connection with Kafka.
We need to make the format Kafka.
We need to send all the options to connect to Kafka properly quitting the host.
Again that would normally be a server,
not just local host.
We want to subscribe to the right topic for the BankWithdrawals,
which is called BankWithdrawals.
We're going to say starting offsets of earliest to get all the data.
Then we're going to load,
which starts all of that data frame once the Spark application starts.
Let's convert this from binary into another data frame called bankWithdrawalsStreamingDF.
We're going to call.withColumn method.
We are going to get,
Oh I'm jumping ahead,
we actually want to select the stuff into strings first.
I was about to try and get the JSON.
But JSON doesn't work very well directly from
a completely binary payload that's not going to work,
needs to be a string first.
Let's cast (key as a string),
and we're going to call this transactionId.
We're going to cast (value as a string),
and we're going to call this bankWithdrawJSON.
I try to use camel case even for acronyms to be consistent,
so that's what I did there.
Now we can convert it and make sure there's an error on there.
Let's put a new column in there that just overwrote
the old one that has all this JSON field split out into separate fields.
We're going to say,.withColumn,
and the field that has the JSON is what?
The one that has the Camel case bankWithdrawJSON.
The schema we want to use is the first one,
the bankWithdrawalsMessageSchema and out of those I want to select all of the fields.
I'm going to say column because they're all nested inside of one,
I can do it like this bankWithdrawJSON.*.
I want to put those separated fields into a view side-by-side,
not anymore in a sub-field.
We'll make that view called BankWithdrawals.
Now let's query all of that information.
Let's see we've got some amounts to work with.
What's our minimal transaction to be considered
significant for this data, let's say $500.
Let's do a select we will call it bankWithdrawsSelectDF,
and we're going to use Spark.sql.
Select all the fields from BankWithdrawals. What next?
Where amount, what greater than $500?
Because that's a flow, we can do that. There we go.
Now we've got that data frame ready to be joined.
We're limiting to $500 transactions or greater.
Now we're going to get the next data frame from Kafka.
So we're going to get the ATM messages, atmWithdrawalsRawStreamingDF.
We're going to use the same Spark Session guys because we don't need
more than one Spark Session ever in a single application.
Getting to the readStream,
making it format ("kafka"),
sending the options to connect to the server.
The topic is called atm-withdrawals.
That information is coming from our simulated business application that we looked at
earlier on to startingOffset to be earliest. Then we want to load it.
We need to do a similar conversion here,
so atmStreamingDF equals atmRawStreamingDF.Select
Expr cast (key as string),
and its transactionId again.
Is it okay to have the same field name? Yes, it is.
It's in a different data frame.
So that'll be just fine.
We're going to cast (value as a string) as well,
and that's going to be called atmMessageJSON.
Now this message data could be coming actually from a real ATM.
In our case it's not,
but ATMs generate a lot of interesting information.
Now we're going to take this ATM streaming DataFrame and create
an overridden column called ATM message JSON.
We're going to extract data from the column that's already there by the same name.
We're overloading a column.
We need to use the right schema.
The right schema here is ATM withdrawals message schema.
Then we're going to select all the subfields that got written into that.
The field again is ATM message JSON.
We're going to do select column.
That allows us to do this expression here, dot star.
We're going create a view with that data in it called ATM withdrawals.
Now we can go ahead and query that information.
We're going to do another slight maneuver on this data.
We're going to select that,
but we want to alias the transaction ID.
We don't have a collision on the join with the same field names.
Because I said it was okay which it is.
But until this point when we have to have them all live
together than they have done their own names.
I want the transaction date,
I want the transaction ID as ATM transaction ID,
I want ATM location.
We're selecting it all from ATM withdrawals.
That's the name of the view.
Now we're going to create our join.
We're going to call it ATM withdrawal DataFrame,
and we're going do the left-hand of the joint B, the bank withdraws.
Select DF, that's this one.
Dot join.
The thing that we're going to join on the right hand of the joint is ATM's like star DF.
We need to tell it how to join it because it's not going to guess.
We need to do our triple equals.
We want the transaction id to equal ATM transaction ID.
The first one comes from the bank withdrawals,
second one comes from the schema because we've created an alias here to that field name.
Now we're going to write
this DataFrame that has the joint information into a new Kafka topic,
and we're going to do that here.
We normally, when we stream from Kafka,
we start with a SparkSession.
It's a little different because in this case
we already have a DataFrame. We don't need one.
We're starting with the DataFrame and then we take the DataFrame and stream it.
We first have to get it back into JSON format.
We've aggregate this data from two different views.
We're not wasting our energy because now we've got it all
together and we want to create a new JSON payload.
Let's do that.
We want to cast the transaction id,
which will come from the first record from
the bank withdrawals are casting that as a string and that will become our key.
Then we're going put stuff to JSON.
We want to select all the fields we're going to want,
which is all of them.
We're going to put that into the value field,
and we're doing right stream.
This created a DataFrame.
Then we're changing that to do the right stream call and then we're formatting.
As Kafka, we've got to provide the bootstrap server again.
We want to create a new topic,
let's call it withdrawals location.
Because that's the interesting information we got from the ATM is the location.
We've going to give it a checkpoint location,
which is a writable directory that the Spark worker can write to.
I've created, I've told it a file called Kafka check point.
It'll create that dynamically.
I don't have to create it.
I'm calling dot start and then await termination.
If all this runs properly,
we will have data in a new topic called What?
Withdrawals location.
I'm going to go to my home workspace.
I'm going to list and I have a script here called submit bank withdrawals.
Because I'm in the folder home workspace,
I can do dot slash, which is here.
Then I can do Summit bank withdrawals dot SH.
Let's see if it crashes.
If it does, we'll just seem to fix it and run it again.
Line 12, StructField, transaction ID, integer type.
It looks like I forgot some parentheses there. Yes, I did.
Let's see, can you look for me?
Did I miss any others?
Yeah, right, I didn't.
We're going save that again.
The Python file up arrow will rerun.
We're going to run it one more time and see what we get. Line 48.
Bank withdrawals message schema is not defined.
Bank withdrawals message schema.
The d is uppercase here.
Let's make it not uppercase.
Save that.
Run it again. Line 48 calls should be column.
Assertion error, COL should be column.
What happened here is I'm missing an extra paren.
I'm going to put that in. That should fix that. Up arrow again.
Invalid syntax bank withdrawals message scheme.
I'm selecting the bank withdrawal JSON field.
I'm creating a new column inside of it.
Oh, I missed something here.
I need to say from JSON and then I need to pass in the field,
I'm extracting it from bank withdrawal JSON,
and then the name of the schema.
Now I'm passing the JSON extracted into this field,
save that ATM select star DF is not defined.
See line 78.
We've got our ATM streaming DataFrame with that column,
we want to now create a temporary view.
We did that here.
We actually want to say equals Spark.SQL.
Save that. Cannot be resolved on the left side of the join.
So which side is the left site?
This is at transaction ID.
It saying that it doesn't recognize that field,
which came from here,
transaction ID plus side columns,
account number, amount, date, and time.
It does have a field called transaction ID.
Let's see what we might have missed here.
It could be Formatting.
The issue that we just saw was caused by
this expression not being properly surrounded by the EXPR function.
We need to pass it in the EXPR function.
That way it knows it's a select expression.
That's what was failing.
We're going to fix that.
Then if I go to home workspace,
and then I'm going to do dot slash submit bank withdrawals dot SH.
Loading all the jars,
waiting for the output.
The output will go to Kafka.
As long as we keep seeing that blinking cursor,
we're still generating new messages in Kafka.
I'm seeing that.
This is a normal warning that we see with HDFS.
We're going to keep on trucking.
I'm going to go over here again.
I'm going to go to the data Kafka bin folder listed.
I'm going say dot slash Kafka console consumer,
bootstrap server, local host 1992.
The topic we want is that new topic we created withdrawals location,
and from the beginning should be JSON formatted,
and it should have the data from both.
If I control C on that,
we can look at one holding still.
We have an account number and amount, date and time.
That information came from the bank withdrawal.
Then we have transaction ID as well.
We have the ATM transaction ID and the ATM location in Thailand for this transaction.
That was joining data and putting in JSON format into Kafka topic.